README.md, before:

# ResiliOnt: The Resilience Core Ontology 

This repository hosts ResiliOnt, a core ontology that aims to provide a clear and robust definition of resilience by leveraging the Unified Foundational Ontology (UFO) and OntoUML. By addressing the ambiguities and inconsistencies in existing definitions of resilience, ResiliOnt seeks to ensure interoperability and clarity across various domains and facilitate interdisciplinary research.

## Related Ontologies

ResiliOnt leverages concepts from the [Common Ontology of Value and Risk (COVER)](https://github.com/unibz-core/value-and-risk-ontology) and the Capabilities Ontology. These ontologies provide the baseline for understanding concepts used in ResiliOnt, such as the relationships between capabilities and concepts like vulnerabilities and threats.

- [**COVER**](https://www.academia.edu/download/82803282/the_common_ontology_of_value_and_risk_2018.pdf): Introduces key concepts such as Objects at Risk, Threat Events, and Vulnerabilities, which are integral to modeling resilience. For more details, please refer to:
  - Sales, Tiago Prince, Baião, Fernanda, and others. "The Common Ontology of Value and Risk." In *Conceptual Modeling*, Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2018, pp. 121-135.

- [**Capabilities Ontology**](https://nemo.inf.ufes.br/wp-content/papercite-data/pdf/a_system_core_ontology_for_capability_emergence_modeling_2023.pdf): Explores the nature of capabilities and their enabling and disabling relationships, contributing to a deeper understanding of how resilience can be achieved and observed. For more details, please refer to:
  - Calhau, Rodrigo F., Prince Sales, Tiago, and others. "A System Core Ontology for Capability Emergence Modeling." In *Enterprise Design, Operations, and Computing - 27th International Conference, EDOC 2023, Groningen, The Netherlands, October 30 - November 3, 2023, Proceedings*, Springer, 2023, pp. 3-20. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-46587-1_1.

## Contents

- **ResiliOnt.vpp**: The editable Visual Paradigm project file containing the OntoUML ontology model and UML Object Diagrams with examples of possible instantiations.
- **Images**: Images of the OntoUML model and UML Object diagrams illustrating examples of the ontology's instantiation.

<!-- ## How to Cite

If you use this ontology, please cite it using the information provided in the `CITATION.cff` file available in the repository. You can find the citation file [here](https://github.com/pedropaulofb/resiliont/blob/main/CITATION.cff). -->

## How to Contribute

Contributions are welcomed! If you would like to contribute, you can create Pull Requests (PRs) or open issues in the repository.

<!-- ## Authors

This work was developed by researchers from the [Business Informatics Group of Ghent University, Belgium](https://ugent-businessinformatics.github.io/) and the [Semantics, Cybersecurity & Services Group at the University of Twente, Netherlands](https://www.utwente.nl/en/eemcs/scs/).

- [Pedro Paulo F. Barcelos](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2736-7817) [[GitHub](https://github.com/pedropaulofb)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedro-paulo-favato-barcelos/)]
- [Rodrigo F. Calhau](https://orcid.org/0009-0006-6051-2165) [[GitHub](https://github.com/rfcalhau)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rodrigo-f-calhau-a6663776/)]
- [Ítalo Oliveira](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2384-3081) [[GitHub](https://github.com/italojsoliveira)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/%C3%ADtalo-oliveira-800923162/)]
- [Tiago Prince Sales](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5385-5761) [[GitHub](https://github.com/tgoprince)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiago-sales/)]
- [Frederik Gailly](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0481-9745) [[GitHub](https://github.com/fgailly)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fgailly/)]
- [Geert Poels](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9247-6150) [[GitHub](https://github.com/geertpoels)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/geert-p-039198287/)]
- [Giancarlo Guizzardi](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3452-553X) [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/giancarlo-guizzardi/)] -->

Commit message:

add json and new version of vpp

README.md, after:

# ResiliOnt: The Resilience Core Ontology 

This repository hosts ResiliOnt, a core ontology that aims to provide a clear and robust definition of resilience by leveraging the Unified Foundational Ontology (UFO) and OntoUML. By addressing the ambiguities and inconsistencies in existing definitions of resilience, ResiliOnt seeks to ensure interoperability and clarity across various domains and facilitate interdisciplinary research.

## Related Ontologies

ResiliOnt leverages concepts from the [Common Ontology of Value and Risk (COVER)](https://github.com/unibz-core/value-and-risk-ontology) and the Capabilities Ontology. These ontologies provide the baseline for understanding concepts used in ResiliOnt, such as the relationships between capabilities and concepts like vulnerabilities and threats.

- [**COVER**](https://www.academia.edu/download/82803282/the_common_ontology_of_value_and_risk_2018.pdf): Introduces key concepts such as Objects at Risk, Threat Events, and Vulnerabilities, which are integral to modeling resilience. For more details, please refer to:
  - Sales, Tiago Prince, Baião, Fernanda, and others. "The Common Ontology of Value and Risk." In *Conceptual Modeling*, Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2018, pp. 121-135.

- [**Capabilities Ontology**](https://nemo.inf.ufes.br/wp-content/papercite-data/pdf/a_system_core_ontology_for_capability_emergence_modeling_2023.pdf): Explores the nature of capabilities and their enabling and disabling relationships, contributing to a deeper understanding of how resilience can be achieved and observed. For more details, please refer to:
  - Calhau, Rodrigo F., Prince Sales, Tiago, and others. "A System Core Ontology for Capability Emergence Modeling." In *Enterprise Design, Operations, and Computing - 27th International Conference, EDOC 2023, Groningen, The Netherlands, October 30 - November 3, 2023, Proceedings*, Springer, 2023, pp. 3-20. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-46587-1_1.

## Contents

- **vpp**: The editable Visual Paradigm project file containing the OntoUML ontology model and UML Object Diagrams with examples of possible instantiations.
- **json**: The OntoUML model serialized to JSON using [OntoUML-Schema](https://w3id.org/ontouml/schema).
- **Images**: Images of the OntoUML model and UML Object diagrams illustrating examples of the ontology's instantiation.

<!-- ## How to Cite

If you use this ontology, please cite it using the information provided in the `CITATION.cff` file available in the repository. You can find the citation file [here](https://github.com/pedropaulofb/resiliont/blob/main/CITATION.cff). -->

## How to Contribute

Contributions are welcomed! If you would like to contribute, you can create Pull Requests (PRs) or open issues in the repository.

<!-- ## Authors

This work was developed by researchers from the [Business Informatics Group of Ghent University, Belgium](https://ugent-businessinformatics.github.io/) and the [Semantics, Cybersecurity & Services Group at the University of Twente, Netherlands](https://www.utwente.nl/en/eemcs/scs/).

- [Pedro Paulo F. Barcelos](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2736-7817) [[GitHub](https://github.com/pedropaulofb)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedro-paulo-favato-barcelos/)]
- [Rodrigo F. Calhau](https://orcid.org/0009-0006-6051-2165) [[GitHub](https://github.com/rfcalhau)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rodrigo-f-calhau-a6663776/)]
- [Ítalo Oliveira](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2384-3081) [[GitHub](https://github.com/italojsoliveira)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/%C3%ADtalo-oliveira-800923162/)]
- [Tiago Prince Sales](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5385-5761) [[GitHub](https://github.com/tgoprince)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiago-sales/)]
- [Frederik Gailly](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0481-9745) [[GitHub](https://github.com/fgailly)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fgailly/)]
- [Geert Poels](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9247-6150) [[GitHub](https://github.com/geertpoels)] [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/geert-p-039198287/)]
- [Giancarlo Guizzardi](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3452-553X) [[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/giancarlo-guizzardi/)] -->
